# Bibliographie

Arthur H. Bryan. (1969) [Band Wind instrument mouthpieces may harbor countless
disease viruses and bacterial flora.](https://doi.org/10.1002/sce.3730530503)
Head of science Department, Florida air academy, Melbourne, Floride

Asadi, S., Wexler, A.S., Cappa, C.D. et al. [Aerosol emission and superemission
during human speech increase with voice
loudness.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-38808-z) Sci Rep 9, 2348 (2019).

Banberg symphony orchestra. (5 mai 2020). [Scientists measure aerosol
emissions.](https://medium.com/@SixtoFMontesinos/wind-instruments-may-not-be-as-contagious-as-we-thought-b821e590b29a)

Blackwell, Tom. 26 avril 2020. [COVID-19 can be spead by building ventilation,
argue Canadian researchers working on an HVAC
fix.](https://nationalpost.com/health/covid-19-likely-spread-by-building-ventilation-say-canadian-researchers-working-on-an-hvac-fix)

Bridges, Cynthia et Mobley, James. (Novembre 2016) [Wind Ensemble Infectious
Disease Risks II A Microbiological Examination of Condensate Liquids in Woodwind
Instruments. Texas Public Health Journal

CNESST (2020), [Trousse d'outils pour le secteur des activités intérieures et
extérieures de sport, de loisir et de plein
air.](https://www.cnesst.gouv.qc.ca/salle-de-presse/covid-19/Pages/outils-secteur-loisir-sport-plein-air.aspx)

CNESST (2020), [Trousse d’outils pour le secteur des arts de la scène, les
salles de spectacle et les
cinémas.](https://www.cnesst.gouv.qc.ca/salle-de-presse/covid-19/Pages/outils-arts-spectacle-cinemas.aspx)

CNESST (2020), [Trousse d’outils pour les milieux de la formation
qualifiante.](https://www.cnesst.gouv.qc.ca/salle-de-presse/covid-19/Pages/outils-formation-qualifiante.aspx)

Frank, T.A. (23 avril 2020) [Five Surprising Facts About the Novel
Coronavirus.](https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2020/04/five-surprising-facts-about-the-novel-coronavirus)

Gouvernement du Québec. (2020) [La maladie du coronavirus (COVID019) au
Québec.](https://www.quebec.ca/sante/problemes-de-sante/a-z/coronavirus-2019/reponses-questions-coronavirus-covid19/isolement-symptomes-traitements-COVID-19/#c59098)

Hodge Ann, Hodge Tim et Hodge Kate (30 mai 2020) COVID-19 Reed sanitizing, Hodge
Products, Inc.

Johnson, G.R., Morawska, L., Ristovski, Z.D., Hargreaves, M., Mengersen, K.,
Chao, C.Y.H., Wan, M.P., Xie, Li X Xie, Katoshevski, D., Corbett, S. (5 août
2011) [Modality of human expired aerosol size
distributions.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaerosci.2011.07.009)

Marshall, Bonnie et Levy, Stuart. (23 mai 2011) [Microbial contamination of
musical wind instrument. International Journal of Environmental Health
Research.](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21745020/)

Médecine des arts. (4 mai 2020) [Covid-19- Évaluation des risques dans le
domaine de la pratique
musicale.](https://www.medecine-des-arts.com/editeur/images/illustration%20MdA/COVID-19%20Evaluation%20du%20risque%20pour%20les%20musiciens%20et%20les%20chanteurs-%20M%C3%A9decine%20des%20Arts.pdf)

Miller, S, Vance M., Hertzberg J., Toohey D,. (8 mai 2020) [Statement of Work:
Aerosol Generation from Playing Band Instruments and Risk of Infectious Disease
Transmission.](https://www.nfhs.org/media/3812312/risk-of-transmission-instrument-playing-vsfinal.pdf)

N Engl J Med. (2020). [Aerosol ans Surface Stability of SARS-CoV-2 as Compared
with SARS-CoV-1.](https://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/NEJMc2004973)
